==========
CHAPTER 1
=========
that only Midas and Morgan and Maecenas knew. And I had
the high intention of reading many other books besides. I was
rather literary in college — one year I wrote a series of very
solemn and obvious editorials for the “Yale News.”— and now I
was going to bring back all such things into my life and become again that most limited of all specialists, the “well-rounded man.” This isn’t just an epigram — life is much more successfully looked at from a single window, after all.
It was a matter of chance that I should have rented a house
in one of the strangest communities in North America. It was
on that slender riotous island which extends itself due east of
New York — and where there are, among other natural curiosities, two unusual formations of land. Twenty miles from the
city a pair of enormous eggs, identical in contour and
separated only by a courtesy bay, jut out into the most domesticated body of salt water in the Western hemisphere, the great
wet barnyard of Long Island Sound. they are not perfect ovals
— like the egg in the Columbus story, they are both crushed
flat at the contact end — but their physical resemblance must
be a source of perpetual confusion to the gulls that fly overhead. to the wingless a more arresting phenomenon is their
dissimilarity in every particular except shape and size.
I lived at West Egg, the — well, the less fashionable of the
two, though this is a most superficial tag to express the bizarre
and not a little sinister contrast between them. my house was
at the very tip of the egg, only fifty yards from the Sound, and
squeezed between two huge places that rented for twelve or
fifteen thousand a season. the one on my right was a colossal
affair by any standard — it was a factual imitation of some
Hotel de Ville in Normandy, with a tower on one side, spanking
new under a thin beard of raw ivy, and a marble swimming
pool, and more than forty acres of lawn and garden. it was
Gatsby’s mansion. Or, rather, as I didn’t know Mr. Gatsby, it
was a mansion inhabited by a gentleman of that name. My own
house was an eyesore, but it was a small eyesore, and it had
been overlooked, so I had a view of the water, a partial view of
my neighbor’s lawn, and the consoling proximity of millionaires
— all for eighty dollars a month.
Across the courtesy bay the white palaces of fashionable East
Egg glittered along the water, and the history of the summer
really begins on the evening I drove over there to have dinner
with the Tom Buchanans. Daisy was my second cousin once removed, and I’d known Tom in college. And just after the war I
spent two days with them in Chicago.
Her husband, among various physical accomplishments, had
been one of the most powerful ends that ever played football at
New Haven — a national figure in a way, one of those men who
reach such an acute limited excellence at twenty-one that
everything afterward savors of anti-climax. His family were
enormously wealthy — even in college his freedom with money
was a matter for reproach — but now he’d left Chicago and
come East in a fashion that rather took your breath away: for
instance, he’d brought down a string of polo ponies from Lake